# CS-330 READ ME

# 1. How do I approach designing software?

The approach that I take when it comes to designing software is typically the same for most projects, but the approach that I took for this one particularly was quite different. This is because prior to this course, I’ve not had much experience with writing code for computational graphics. Although I found the project very challenging, I did pick up a few tricks along the way that made the overall experience a satisfying one for me. A new design skill that my work on this project helped me craft was the use of variable calculations for lighting, more specifically direction, position, intensity, reflection, and strength. By implementing these lighting calculations, it allowed my scene to have a more consistent and holistic overall sense of lighting relevant to the shape, size, position, textures, and reflectivity of the objects in my scene. I followed this same design process for the relative positions, shapes, and sizes of the actual 3D objects in my scene as well. These tactics of global setting the components of my 3D scene relative to one another will certainly help me in the future because it allows me to set the parameters once, rather than constantly tinkering with each object individually, which ultimately will save me time in the long run when designing computational graphics. 

# 2. How do I approach developing programs?

I approach developing program pretty much the same way that I approach designing software. For this program, I started by reviewing the project requirements and read through them several times over to ensure that I truly understood what is expected from my 3D scene to satisfy the project’s needs. I then did some research to familiarize myself with the specific libraries and resources that I may need to install to support my design, such as the OpenGL functions to support the textures and lighting of each of the objects within my 3D scene. Once I was confident that I was ready to start writing code, I did just that and began my project. Some new development strategies that I used while working on my 3D scene was the use of the global variables to maintain relative shapes, sizes, positions, textures, lighting, and reflectivity of the objects in my scene, as well as the #pragma method to allow my program to provide additional information to the complier more specific objects to override those global variables when needed. Iteration factored into my code greatly and certainly made the entire development process much easier for me to me complete since I was able to reuse vertices and matrices from one 3D object to another, so long as they had similar shapes. My development approach has evolved immensely throughout each milestone of this course. Initially I was focused on just mastering 2D object shapes, sizes, and positions. From there it evolved into adding color, then making 2D objects 3D. Then it continued to evolve into adding a cameras, textures, and lighting until finally I was able to create a complete 3D scene.

# 3. How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?

Computer science has helped me reach my goals both personally and professionally, and I’m certain it will continue to do so. Computation graphics and visualization has given me new knowledge and skills that can be applied in my future educational pathway because it’s applicable beyond just software. The new skills that I’ve learned from this course could be used in other areas of engineering, such as mechanical engineering and design as I would imagine the programming methods would be easily translatable. Computational graphics and visualization has also provided me with new knowledge and skills that could be applied in my future professional pathway as well. The skills that I’ve learned from this course could be even more useful in the near future as technology progresses and evolve in areas such as 3D printing, where software developers and programmers are able to write code that can generate 3D objects in the physical word.
